#summary Definition of the data format used in all output from loguino.

= Data format =

Data is written in Comma Separated Value (CSV) format to disk, and where applicable to serial and other IO streams.  The following fields are defined:

 # timestamp - the time in milliseconds since poweron.
 # namespace - the name of the metric
 # value - the actual value of the metric
 # units - the unit of the value.

= Timestamp field =

The arduino boards do not have a real time clock (RTC) and whilst it i possible to obtain accurate time values from the GPS unit, it is not guaranteed to be available.  Instead the timestamp field is generated via a call to the millis() function which returns the time in milliseconds since poweron.  This gives a sequential time based field which is ultimately all that is required to order the results appropriately.

Date and time will be logged, however via a metric, this enables the logger to function without depending on a GPS fix.  If required, it would be possible to derive the actual time from a single GPS time entry and add or subtract the timestamp from that value to get the real time for each entry.

_Does millis ovefflow, if so after how long? How do we deal with that._

= Namespace field =

The namespace field is used to differentiate one metric from another.  It is a string value, with a . (period) used to denote a level in the hierarchy.   For example:

`MegaSquirt.tpsADC`

Indicates that the metric is the tpsADC valule from the MegSquirt subsystem.  Multiple hiearcnis are supported, for example:

`Odbc2.engine.rpm`

Indicates the metric rpm was gathered from the engine subsystem of the odbc2 system.

= Value field =

The actual value from the metric.

= Units field =

The unit field is a free form name for the unit of the field,  such as degrees, percent, volts etc.

