#summary The LIS331 accelerometer is used to provide acceleration information.
= overview =

The [http://www.st.com/internet/com/TECHNICAL_RESOURCES/TECHNICAL_LITERATURE/DATASHEET/CD00250937.pdf LIS331] is an accurate accelerometer that utilizes the I2C bus for communication.  This was chosen as there are numerous breakouts readily and cheaply available, the I2C bus allows many devices to be connected using only two pins on the arduino, and partly due to my asumption that other accelerometers would lose accuracy when connected via analog inputs.

= Wiring =

The scceleromter is connected using the I2C interface, it is also possible to query it using the SPI interface, however loguino uses the SPI interface to communicate with the SD card, and the I2C bus seemed cleaner in general. The [Lis331Wiring LIS331 Wiring] page details how the accelomter is wired up to loguino.

= LIS331 Library =

I pn order to make it easier to communicate with the acecelerometer, a [Lis331Driver low level driver] has been created, this in itself does not perform any logging, or logging functions, but enables the logger to query the chip without knowing anything about the underlying communication with the accelerometer.

Should it be required, the  [Lis331Driver low level driver] could be reimplemented to use th spi interface, without any changes being required to the poller.

= LIS331 Poller =

The poller is used to query the acceleromter, and create the messages that are logged to the output devices.  At initialization time, the poller queries the acceleromter using the  [Lis331Driver low level driver], switches it on, enables the axes and sets the scale and frequrncy to log at.

Each time the poller is called, it queries the accelerometer for available data, if data is available, it is logged.

= available metrics =

 * accelerometer.lis331.x: the g-force along the x axis.
 * accelerometer.lis331.y: the g-force along the y axis.
 * accelerometer.lis331.z: the g-force along the z axis